analysis/topeft_run2/README.md, before:

## topEFT
This directory contains scripts for the Full Run 2 EFT analysis. This README documents and explains how to run the scrips.

### Scripts for remaking reference files that the CI tests against

* `remake_ci_ref_datacard.py`:
    - This script runs the datacard maker tests.
    - Example usage: `python remake_ci_ref_datacard.py`
    
* `remake_ci_ref_datacard.sh`:
    - This script runs `remake_ci_ref_datacard.py` and copies the resulting reference files to the `analysis/topEFT/test`
    - Example usage: `sh remake_ci_ref_datacard.sh`


### Scripts that check or plot things directly from the NAOD files

* `check_for_lepMVA.py`:
    - Checks if the NanoAOD root file has the ttH lepMVA in it

* `make_1d_quad_plots.py`:
    - Makes plots of the inclusive 1d parameterization for the events in an input root file 


### Scripts for making things that are inputs to the processors

* `make_jsons.py`:
    - The purpose of this script is to function as a wrapper for the `topcoffea/modules/createJSON.py` script. That script can also be run from the command line, but many options must be specified, so if you would like to make multiple JSON files or if you will need to remake the JSON files at some point, it is easier to use this script.
    - To make JSON files for samples that you would like to process:
        * Make a dictionary, where the key is the name of the JSON file you would like to produce, and the value is another dictionary, specifying the path to the sample, the name you would like the sample to have on the `sample` axis of the coffea histogram, and the cross section that the sample should correspond to in the `topcoffea/cfg/xsec.cfg` file. The path to the sample should start with `/store`. The existing dictionaries in the file can be used as examples.
        * In the `main()` function, call `make_jsons_for_dict_of_samples()`, and pass your dictionary, along with a redirector (if you are accessing the sample via xrootd), the year of the sample, and the path to an output directory.
        * After the JSON file is produced, it will be moved to the output directory that you specified.
    - Make sure to run `run_sow.py` and `update_json_sow.py` to update the sum of weights before committing and pushing any updates to the json files
    - Once you have produced the JSON file, you should consider committing it to the repository (so that other people can easily process the sample as well), along with the updated `make_jsons.py` script (so that if you have to reproduce the JSON in the future, you will not have to redo any work).
    - Example usage: `python make_jsons.py`

* `make_skim_jsons.py`:
    - Makes JSON files for skimmed samples to be used as input for the processor

* `update_json_sow.py`:
    - This script updates the actual json files corresponding to the samples run with `run_sow.py`
    - Example usage: `python update_json_sow.py histos/sowTopEFT.pkl.gz --json-dir ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/some_json_dir`

* `missing_parton.py`:
    - This script compares two sets of datacards (central NLO and private LO) and computes the necessary uncertainty to bring them into agreement (after account for all included systematics).
    - Datacards should be copied to `histos/central_sm` and `histos/private_sm` respectively.
    - Example usage: `python analysis/topEFT/missing_parton.py --output-path ~/www/coffea/master/1D/ --years 2017`
    - :warning: The part of this script that gets the lumi has not been updated since the `topcoffea` refactoring. 


### Run scripts and processors

* `run_topeft.py` for `topeft.py`:
    - This is the run script for the main `topeft.py` processor. Its usage is documented on the repository's main README. It uses either the `work_queue` or the `futures` executors (with `futures` it uses 8 cores by default). The `work_queue` executor makes use of remote resources, and you will need to submit workers using a `condor_submit_workers` command as explained on the main `topcoffea` README. You can configure the run with a number of command line arguments, but the most important one is the config file, where you list the samples you would like to process (by pointing to the JSON files for each sample, located inside of `topcoffea/json`.
    - Example usage: `python run_topeft.py ../../topcoffea/cfg/your_cfg.cfg`

* `run_analysis.py`:
    - Provides the CLI entrypoint for the Run 2 Coffea workflow. The heavy lifting now lives in ``analysis.topeft_run2.workflow`` where the ``RunWorkflow`` class orchestrates channel planning, histogram scheduling, and executor setup.
    - Python API example::

        from topeft.analysis import run_workflow
        from analysis.topeft_run2.run_analysis_helpers import RunConfig

        config = RunConfig(json_files=["/path/to/sample.json"])
        run_workflow(config)

    - A step-by-step walkthrough of the command-line interface, including the
      default metadata bundles and example invocations that mirror
      ``fullR2_run.sh``, is available in the
      [TOP-22-006 quickstart guide](../docs/quickstart_top22_006.md).

* `run_sow.py` for `sow_processor.py`:
    - This script runs over the provided json files and calculates the properer sum of weights
    - Example usage: `python run_sow.py ../../topcoffea/json/signal_samples/private_UL/UL17_tHq_b1.json --xrd root://deepthought.crc.nd.edu/`

* `fullR2_run.sh`: Wrapper script for making the full TOP-22-006 pkl file with `run_topeft.py`.
    - The same SR/CR presets are now available through
      `analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run.yml`.  Load them directly with::

          python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml

      By default this launches the control-region job (matching the script).
      Add `--options-profile sr` to switch to the signal-region inputs, or pass
      any other command-line flag to override the YAML values (for example,
      `--skip-cr` or `--outname refact_250901_c1_custom`).


### Scripts for finding, comparing and plotting yields from histograms (from the processor)

* `make_cr_and_sr_plots.py`:
    - This script makes plots for all CRs categories, also has the ability to make SR plots. 
    - The script takes as input a pkl file that should have both data and background MC included.
    - Example usage: `python make_cr_plots.py -f histos/your.pkl.gz -o ~/www/some/dir -n some_dir_name -y 2018 -t -u`

* `get_yield_json.py`:
    - This script takes a pkl file produced by the processor, finds the yields in the analysis categories, and saves the yields to a json file. It can also print the info to the screen. The default pkl file to process is `hists/plotsTopEFT.pkl.gz`.
    - Example usage: `python get_yield_json.py -f histos/your_pkl_file.pkl.gz`

* `comp_yields.py`:
    - This script takes two json files of yields (produced by `get_yield_json.py`), finds the difference and percent difference between them in each category, and prints out all of the information. You can also compare to the TOP-19-001 yields by specifying `TOP-19-001` as one of the inputs. Specifying the second file is optional, and it will default to the reference yield file. The script returns a non-zero exit code if any of the percent differences are larger than a given value (currently set to 1e-8). 
    - Example usage: `python comp_yields.py your_yields_1.json your_yields_2.json`


### Scripts for making and checking the datacards

* `make_cards.py`
    - Example usage: `time python make_cards.py /path/to/your.pkl.gz -C --do-nuisance --var-lst lj0pt ptz -d /path/to/output/dir --unblind --do-mc-stat`

* `parse_datacard_templtes.py`:
    - Takes as input the path to a dir that has all of the template root files produced by the datacard maker, can output info about the templates or plots of the templates

* `get_datacard_yields.py`:
    - Gets SM yields from template histograms, dumps the yields (in latex table format) to the screen
    - Example usage: `python get_datacard_yields.py /path/to/dir/with/your/templates/`

* `make_1d_quad_plots_from_template_histos.py`:
    - The purpose of this script was to help to understand the quadratic dependence of the systematics on the WCs. This script takes as input the information from the template histograms, and the goal is to reconstruct the quadratic parameterizations from the templates. The relevant templates are the ones produced by topcoffea's datacard maker, which should be passed to `EFTFit`'s `look_at_templates.C` (which opens the templates, optionally extrapolates the up/down beyond +-1sigma, and dumps the info into a python dictionary). The comments in the script have more information about how to run it. 

* `datacards_post_processing.py`:
    - This script does some basic checks of the cards and templates produced by the `make_cards.py` script.
    - It also can parse the condor log files and dump a summary of the contents
    - Additionally, it can also grab the right set of ptz and lj0pt templates (for the right categories) used in TOP-22-006
    - Example: `python datacards_post_processing.py /path/to/your/datacards/dir -c -s`

Commit message:

Document YAML configs and quickstart options

analysis/topeft_run2/README.md, after:

## topEFT
This directory contains scripts for the Full Run 2 EFT analysis. This README documents and explains how to run the scrips.

### Scripts for remaking reference files that the CI tests against

* `remake_ci_ref_datacard.py`:
    - This script runs the datacard maker tests.
    - Example usage: `python remake_ci_ref_datacard.py`
    
* `remake_ci_ref_datacard.sh`:
    - This script runs `remake_ci_ref_datacard.py` and copies the resulting reference files to the `analysis/topEFT/test`
    - Example usage: `sh remake_ci_ref_datacard.sh`


### Scripts that check or plot things directly from the NAOD files

* `check_for_lepMVA.py`:
    - Checks if the NanoAOD root file has the ttH lepMVA in it

* `make_1d_quad_plots.py`:
    - Makes plots of the inclusive 1d parameterization for the events in an input root file 


### Scripts for making things that are inputs to the processors

* `make_jsons.py`:
    - The purpose of this script is to function as a wrapper for the `topcoffea/modules/createJSON.py` script. That script can also be run from the command line, but many options must be specified, so if you would like to make multiple JSON files or if you will need to remake the JSON files at some point, it is easier to use this script.
    - To make JSON files for samples that you would like to process:
        * Make a dictionary, where the key is the name of the JSON file you would like to produce, and the value is another dictionary, specifying the path to the sample, the name you would like the sample to have on the `sample` axis of the coffea histogram, and the cross section that the sample should correspond to in the `topcoffea/cfg/xsec.cfg` file. The path to the sample should start with `/store`. The existing dictionaries in the file can be used as examples.
        * In the `main()` function, call `make_jsons_for_dict_of_samples()`, and pass your dictionary, along with a redirector (if you are accessing the sample via xrootd), the year of the sample, and the path to an output directory.
        * After the JSON file is produced, it will be moved to the output directory that you specified.
    - Make sure to run `run_sow.py` and `update_json_sow.py` to update the sum of weights before committing and pushing any updates to the json files
    - Once you have produced the JSON file, you should consider committing it to the repository (so that other people can easily process the sample as well), along with the updated `make_jsons.py` script (so that if you have to reproduce the JSON in the future, you will not have to redo any work).
    - Example usage: `python make_jsons.py`

* `make_skim_jsons.py`:
    - Makes JSON files for skimmed samples to be used as input for the processor

* `update_json_sow.py`:
    - This script updates the actual json files corresponding to the samples run with `run_sow.py`
    - Example usage: `python update_json_sow.py histos/sowTopEFT.pkl.gz --json-dir ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/some_json_dir`

* `missing_parton.py`:
    - This script compares two sets of datacards (central NLO and private LO) and computes the necessary uncertainty to bring them into agreement (after account for all included systematics).
    - Datacards should be copied to `histos/central_sm` and `histos/private_sm` respectively.
    - Example usage: `python analysis/topEFT/missing_parton.py --output-path ~/www/coffea/master/1D/ --years 2017`
    - :warning: The part of this script that gets the lumi has not been updated since the `topcoffea` refactoring. 


### Run scripts and processors

* `run_topeft.py` for `topeft.py`:
    - This is the run script for the main `topeft.py` processor. Its usage is documented on the repository's main README. It uses either the `work_queue` or the `futures` executors (with `futures` it uses 8 cores by default). The `work_queue` executor makes use of remote resources, and you will need to submit workers using a `condor_submit_workers` command as explained on the main `topcoffea` README. You can configure the run with a number of command line arguments, but the most important one is the config file, where you list the samples you would like to process (by pointing to the JSON files for each sample, located inside of `topcoffea/json`.
    - Example usage: `python run_topeft.py ../../topcoffea/cfg/your_cfg.cfg`

* `run_analysis.py`:
    - Provides the CLI entrypoint for the Run 2 Coffea workflow. The heavy lifting now lives in ``analysis.topeft_run2.workflow`` where the ``RunWorkflow`` class orchestrates channel planning, histogram scheduling, and executor setup.
    - YAML-driven presets live in ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/``.  The ``fullR2_run.yml`` profile mirrors the historic ``fullR2_run.sh`` wrapper and includes both control-region (``default``) and signal-region (``sr``) option bundles.  Launch the control-region pass with::

        python run_analysis.py ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
            --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
            --summary-verbosity full

      Switch to the signal-region preset by appending ``--options-profile sr`` and, if desired, ``--log-tasks`` for a verbose per-histogram submission trace.
    - Metadata scenarios from ``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` can be selected via ``--scenario`` (defaults to ``TOP_22_006``).  Additional bundles include ``tau_analysis`` for the tau-enriched categories and ``fwd_analysis`` for the forward-jet study.  The arguments may be repeated to combine scenarios, and feature tags such as ``--channel-feature requires_tau`` can be layered on top.
    - Python API example::

        from topeft.analysis import run_workflow
        from analysis.topeft_run2.run_analysis_helpers import RunConfig

        config = RunConfig(json_files=["/path/to/sample.json"])
        run_workflow(config)

    - A step-by-step walkthrough of the command-line interface, including the
      default metadata bundles and example invocations that mirror
      ``fullR2_run.sh``, is available in the
      [TOP-22-006 quickstart guide](../docs/quickstart_top22_006.md).  See also
      the [Run 2 quickstart overview](../docs/quickstart_run2.md), the
      [analysis processing primer](../docs/analysis_processing.md), and the
      [YAML configuration guide](../docs/run_analysis_configuration.md) for
      deeper dives into the helper modules and configuration schema.  For a
      minimal end-to-end smoke test, run ``python -m topeft.quickstart`` with a
      JSON from ``input_samples/sample_jsons/``—the helper resolves your samples
      and dispatches a lightweight futures job before returning the recorded
      ``RunConfig`` instance.

* `run_sow.py` for `sow_processor.py`:
    - This script runs over the provided json files and calculates the properer sum of weights
    - Example usage: `python run_sow.py ../../topcoffea/json/signal_samples/private_UL/UL17_tHq_b1.json --xrd root://deepthought.crc.nd.edu/`

* `fullR2_run.sh`: Wrapper script for making the full TOP-22-006 pkl file with `run_topeft.py`.
    - The same SR/CR presets are now available through
      `analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run.yml`.  Load them directly with::

          python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml

      By default this launches the control-region job (matching the script).
      Add `--options-profile sr` to switch to the signal-region inputs, or pass
      any other command-line flag to override the YAML values (for example,
      `--skip-cr` or `--outname refact_250901_c1_custom`).


### Scripts for finding, comparing and plotting yields from histograms (from the processor)

* `make_cr_and_sr_plots.py`:
    - This script makes plots for all CRs categories, also has the ability to make SR plots. 
    - The script takes as input a pkl file that should have both data and background MC included.
    - Example usage: `python make_cr_plots.py -f histos/your.pkl.gz -o ~/www/some/dir -n some_dir_name -y 2018 -t -u`

* `get_yield_json.py`:
    - This script takes a pkl file produced by the processor, finds the yields in the analysis categories, and saves the yields to a json file. It can also print the info to the screen. The default pkl file to process is `hists/plotsTopEFT.pkl.gz`.
    - Example usage: `python get_yield_json.py -f histos/your_pkl_file.pkl.gz`

* `comp_yields.py`:
    - This script takes two json files of yields (produced by `get_yield_json.py`), finds the difference and percent difference between them in each category, and prints out all of the information. You can also compare to the TOP-19-001 yields by specifying `TOP-19-001` as one of the inputs. Specifying the second file is optional, and it will default to the reference yield file. The script returns a non-zero exit code if any of the percent differences are larger than a given value (currently set to 1e-8). 
    - Example usage: `python comp_yields.py your_yields_1.json your_yields_2.json`


### Scripts for making and checking the datacards

* `make_cards.py`
    - Example usage: `time python make_cards.py /path/to/your.pkl.gz -C --do-nuisance --var-lst lj0pt ptz -d /path/to/output/dir --unblind --do-mc-stat`

* `parse_datacard_templtes.py`:
    - Takes as input the path to a dir that has all of the template root files produced by the datacard maker, can output info about the templates or plots of the templates

* `get_datacard_yields.py`:
    - Gets SM yields from template histograms, dumps the yields (in latex table format) to the screen
    - Example usage: `python get_datacard_yields.py /path/to/dir/with/your/templates/`

* `make_1d_quad_plots_from_template_histos.py`:
    - The purpose of this script was to help to understand the quadratic dependence of the systematics on the WCs. This script takes as input the information from the template histograms, and the goal is to reconstruct the quadratic parameterizations from the templates. The relevant templates are the ones produced by topcoffea's datacard maker, which should be passed to `EFTFit`'s `look_at_templates.C` (which opens the templates, optionally extrapolates the up/down beyond +-1sigma, and dumps the info into a python dictionary). The comments in the script have more information about how to run it. 

* `datacards_post_processing.py`:
    - This script does some basic checks of the cards and templates produced by the `make_cards.py` script.
    - It also can parse the condor log files and dump a summary of the contents
    - Additionally, it can also grab the right set of ptz and lj0pt templates (for the right categories) used in TOP-22-006
    - Example: `python datacards_post_processing.py /path/to/your/datacards/dir -c -s`
