topeft/channels/channel_group_summary.md, before:

# Channel Group Summary

This document consolidates the lepton categories and associated configuration lists defined in `ch_lst.json`, highlighting overlaps that could be deduplicated in future maintenance.

## TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## TAU_CH_LST_SR

- "2lss"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m", "0tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "2lss_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_m_1tau_onZ", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "onZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_p_1tau_offZ", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "offZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_m_1tau_offZ", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "offZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_p_1tau_onZ", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "onZ_tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=3", "=4", "=5", ">6"]`
- "2los_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_onZ_1tau", "2los", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau", "2l_onZ"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `[">5"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_1tau_1b", "bmask_exactly1m", "1tau"]`, `["3l_1tau_2b", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## TAU_CH_LST_CR

- "2los_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_1tau_Ftau", "2los", "2l_nozeeveto", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1Ftau"]`, `["2los_1tau_Ttau", "2los", "2l_nozeeveto", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4"]`
- "1l_1tau_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["1l_1tau_CR", "1l", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["e", "m"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_1l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4"]`

## OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_low_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_high_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_none_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_low_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_high_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_none_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_low_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_high_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_none_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_low_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_high_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_none_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## CH_LST_CR

- "2l_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_CR", "chargedl0", "2lss", "bmask_exactly1m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=1", "=2", "=3"]`
- "2l_CRflip"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_CRflip", "2l_nozeeveto", "2lee", "2l_onZ_as"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["<3"]`
- "2los_CRZ"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_CRZ", "2l_nozeeveto", "2los", "2l_onZ", "bmask_exactly0m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `[">0"]`
- "2los_CRtt"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_CRtt", "2l_nozeeveto", "2los", "2lem", "bmask_exactly2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["em"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2"]`
- "3l_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_CR", "3l", "bmask_exactly0m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=0", ">1"]`

## FWD_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "~fwdjet_mask"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "~fwdjet_mask"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_fwd_p", "2lss_fwd", "2l_fwd_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_fwd_m", "2lss_fwd", "2l_fwd_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## Overlap Notes

- The "2l", "3l", and "4l" categories in `TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR`, `TAU_CH_LST_SR` (for the `0tau` variants), `OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR`, and `FWD_CH_LST_SR` reuse identical `lep_flav_lst`, `appl_lst`, and `jet_lst` definitions, with only minor variations in `lep_chan_lst` (e.g., additional tau tags or forward-jet masks).
- `isSR_2lSS` / `isAR_2lSS`, `isSR_3l` / `isAR_3l`, and `isSR_4l` appear in nearly every signal-region group. Consolidating these application lists could reduce duplication.
- The `2lss` channel definitions (with and without tau requirements) repeat across `TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR`, `TAU_CH_LST_SR`, `OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR`, and `FWD_CH_LST_SR`. Many share the same jet binning (`=4`, `=5`, `=6`, `>7`).
- `3l_onZ` / `3l_offZ` subchannels with 1b/2b tagging recur across the non-control region groups with only additional modifiers for tau or off-Z splitting.
- The control-region groups (`TAU_CH_LST_CR`, `CH_LST_CR`) introduce unique tau-tagged or opposite-sign requirements but still reuse the same `isSR_*` and `isAR_*` flags, suggesting an opportunity to centralize control-region application lists as well.

Commit message:

Refactor channel selection to use metadata helper

topeft/channels/channel_group_summary.md, after:

# Channel Group Summary

This document consolidates the lepton categories and associated configuration lists defined in `params/metadata.yml` under `channels.groups`, highlighting overlaps that could be deduplicated in future maintenance.

## TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## TAU_CH_LST_SR

- "2lss"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m", "0tau"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m", "0tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "2lss_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_m_1tau_onZ", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "onZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_p_1tau_offZ", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "offZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_m_1tau_offZ", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "offZ_tau"]`, `["2lss_p_1tau_onZ", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau", "onZ_tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=3", "=4", "=5", ">6"]`
- "2los_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_onZ_1tau", "2los", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau", "2l_onZ"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `[">5"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m", "0tau"]`, `["3l_1tau_1b", "bmask_exactly1m", "1tau"]`, `["3l_1tau_2b", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## TAU_CH_LST_CR

- "2los_1tau"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_1tau_Ftau", "2los", "2l_nozeeveto", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1Ftau"]`, `["2los_1tau_Ttau", "2los", "2l_nozeeveto", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4"]`
- "1l_1tau_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["1l_1tau_CR", "1l", "bmask_atleast2m", "1tau"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["e", "m"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_1l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4"]`

## OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_low_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_high_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_none_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_low_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_high_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_none_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_low_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_high_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_none_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_low_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_low", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_high_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_high", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_none_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ_none", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## CH_LST_CR

- "2l_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_CR", "chargedl0", "2lss", "bmask_exactly1m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=1", "=2", "=3"]`
- "2l_CRflip"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_CRflip", "2l_nozeeveto", "2lee", "2l_onZ_as"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["<3"]`
- "2los_CRZ"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_CRZ", "2l_nozeeveto", "2los", "2l_onZ", "bmask_exactly0m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `[">0"]`
- "2los_CRtt"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2los_CRtt", "2l_nozeeveto", "2los", "2lem", "bmask_exactly2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["em"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lOS", "isAR_2lOS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2"]`
- "3l_CR"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_CR", "3l", "bmask_exactly0m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=0", ">1"]`

## FWD_CH_LST_SR

- "2l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["2lss_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "~fwdjet_mask"]`, `["2lss_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m", "~fwdjet_mask"]`, `["2lss_4t_p", "2lss", "2l_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_4t_m", "2lss", "2l_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atleast3m"]`, `["2lss_fwd_p", "2lss_fwd", "2l_fwd_p", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`, `["2lss_fwd_m", "2lss_fwd", "2l_fwd_m", "bmask_atleast1m2l", "bmask_atmost2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["ee", "em", "mm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_2lSS", "isAR_2lSS"]`
  - `appl_lst_data`: `["isAR_2lSS_OS"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=4", "=5", "=6", ">7"]`
- "3l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["3l_onZ_1b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_onZ_2b", "3l", "3l_onZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_1b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_m_offZ_2b", "3l_m", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_1b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_exactly1m"]`, `["3l_p_offZ_2b", "3l_p", "3l_offZ", "bmask_atleast2m"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["eee", "eem", "emm", "mmm"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_3l", "isAR_3l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", "=4", ">5"]`
- "4l"
  - `lep_chan_lst`: `["4l", "4l", "bmask_atleast1m2l"]`
  - `lep_flav_lst`: `["llll"]`
  - `appl_lst`: `["isSR_4l"]`
  - `jet_lst`: `["=2", "=3", ">4"]`

## Overlap Notes

- The "2l", "3l", and "4l" categories in `TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR`, `TAU_CH_LST_SR` (for the `0tau` variants), `OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR`, and `FWD_CH_LST_SR` reuse identical `lep_flav_lst`, `appl_lst`, and `jet_lst` definitions, with only minor variations in `lep_chan_lst` (e.g., additional tau tags or forward-jet masks).
- `isSR_2lSS` / `isAR_2lSS`, `isSR_3l` / `isAR_3l`, and `isSR_4l` appear in nearly every signal-region group. Consolidating these application lists could reduce duplication.
- The `2lss` channel definitions (with and without tau requirements) repeat across `TOP22_006_CH_LST_SR`, `TAU_CH_LST_SR`, `OFFZ_SPLIT_CH_LST_SR`, and `FWD_CH_LST_SR`. Many share the same jet binning (`=4`, `=5`, `=6`, `>7`).
- `3l_onZ` / `3l_offZ` subchannels with 1b/2b tagging recur across the non-control region groups with only additional modifiers for tau or off-Z splitting.
- The control-region groups (`TAU_CH_LST_CR`, `CH_LST_CR`) introduce unique tau-tagged or opposite-sign requirements but still reuse the same `isSR_*` and `isAR_*` flags, suggesting an opportunity to centralize control-region application lists as well.
