docs/quickstart_run2.md, before:

# Run 2 quickstart pipeline

The Run 2 quickstart helpers are designed to let new users validate their
software environment without having to digest the entire set of options exposed
by `analysis/topeft_run2/run_analysis.py`.  They configure the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.workflow.RunWorkflow` and the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.analysis_processor.AnalysisProcessor` with
conservative defaults, load a small histogram list and keep the executor limited
to the local ``futures`` backend.

The quickest way to run the helper is via the dedicated module entry point::

    python -m topeft.quickstart input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --output quickstart-output

The command performs two steps:

1. :func:`analysis.topeft_run2.quickstart.prepare_samples` resolves the JSON file
   (directories and ``.cfg`` files are also accepted), validates that the file is
   reachable and that the requested metadata scenario exists, and prints a
   summary of the number of samples and events discovered.
2. :func:`analysis.topeft_run2.quickstart.run_quickstart` launches the Coffea
   processor with a single histogram (`lj0pt` by default), ``nchunks=2`` and a
   local futures executor.  This keeps the runtime to a couple of minutes even on
   a laptop.

The output pickle is stored in the directory provided through ``--output`` with
an ``outname`` of ``quickstart`` (so you can expect something like
``quickstart-output/quickstart.pkl.gz``).

## Understanding the quickstart inputs

### Samples JSON

The quickstart helpers use the same JSON description as the full workflow.  A
minimal example targeting a public CMS Run 2 file is shown below:

```json
{
  "xsec": 0.2151,
  "year": "2017",
  "treeName": "Events",
  "histAxisName": "ttHJet_UL17_quickstart",
  "files": [
    "/store/mc/RunIISummer20UL17NanoAODv9/TTZToLLNuNu_M-10_TuneCP5_13TeV-amcatnlo-pythia8/\n     NANOAODSIM/106X_mc2017_realistic_v9-v1/130000/0A1884EE-9F60-6F4F-B423-13F6179B611D.root"
  ],
  "nEvents": 418590,
  "nGenEvents": 418590,
  "nSumOfWeights": 418590,
  "isData": false
}
```

Saving the snippet as ``ttz_quickstart.json`` allows you to run the helper with
``python -m topeft.quickstart ttz_quickstart.json --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/``.
The prefix ensures that the remote EOS path is opened via XRootD.

## Metadata configuration

Quickstart jobs lean entirely on ``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to decide which
regions, histograms, and weight variations to run.  Before editing the file,
consult the [metadata configuration guide](run_analysis_configuration.md#metadata-configuration)
for a full breakdown of each section.  The highlights are:

* ``channels.groups`` enumerate the signal/control regions and include any
  per-region histogram include/exclude lists.
* ``variables`` provides the histogram catalogue (binning, labels, callable
  definitions) consumed by the Coffea processor.
* ``scenarios`` expose friendly names that map to channel bundles and power the
  ``--scenario`` flag used throughout the quickstarts.
* ``systematics`` lists the available weight/object variations.  The helper
  inspects this block whenever ``--do-systs`` is requested.

To test custom metadata, copy ``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to a new location,
edit the clone, and pass it to the helper via ``--metadata``.  Keeping the clone
under version control (for example ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/metadata_dev.yml``)
makes it easy to promote the same configuration to the full workflow once the
quickstart validation looks good.  The same path can be handed to
``analysis/topeft_run2/run_analysis.py`` via ``--metadata`` when you are ready to
run the full job:

```bash
python run_analysis.py ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --metadata configs/metadata_dev.yml --executor futures
```

### Metadata scenarios

The Run 2 metadata (``topeft/params/metadata.yml``) defines the channel bundles
exposed by the quickstart helpers.  Channel activation is now controlled solely
through the scenario list:

* ``TOP_22_006`` – Baseline reinterpretation categories, including the refined
  off-Z trilepton split.
* ``tau_analysis`` – Extends the baseline with the tau-enriched regions.
* ``fwd_analysis`` – Adds the forward-jet selections on top of the shared
  control suite.

Pass ``--scenario`` one or more times to request the combinations you need.  For
example, ``--scenario TOP_22_006 --scenario tau_analysis`` layers the tau
categories onto the baseline job, while adding ``--scenario fwd_analysis`` in
the same command keeps the forward selections active as well.  For a
step-by-step walkthrough of each scenario—including how to mix them in YAML—see
the [Run 2 metadata scenarios guide](run2_scenarios.md).

During :func:`prepare_samples`, the scenario names are validated via the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.workflow.ChannelPlanner`.  Passing unknown
identifiers raises a ``ValueError`` before any processing starts so that
misconfigurations are caught early.

### Next steps {#run2-quickstart-next-steps}

!!! note "Next steps"
    Keep the workflow lightweight while layering on additional validation
    targets.  The [Run 2 metadata scenarios guide](run2_scenarios.md) walks
    through each bundle in detail.  To reuse this helper for the tau- or
    forward-focused reinterpretations, add the scenario switches directly on the
    command line:

    ```bash
    python -m topeft.quickstart \
        input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --scenario tau_analysis
    ```

    Swap ``tau_analysis`` for ``fwd_analysis`` to validate the forward
    categories, or request both in a single run when you want to confirm the
    combined configuration:

    ```bash
    python -m topeft.quickstart \
        input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --scenario TOP_22_006 \
        --scenario tau_analysis \
        --scenario fwd_analysis
    ```

    To keep the combined scenario close at hand for the full workflow, mirror
    the same list in a YAML override for :mod:`run_analysis.py` before scaling
    up.  Start by copying ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run.yml`` to
    ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml`` so all of the other
    defaults remain aligned, then update the new file's metadata pointer, sample
    list, and scenarios as shown below:

    ```yaml
    # analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml
    metadata: configs/metadata_dev.yml
    # (clone topeft/params/metadata.yml to configs/metadata_dev.yml before editing)
    jsonFiles:
      - ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json
    scenarios:
      - TOP_22_006
      - tau_analysis
      - fwd_analysis
    ```

    Launching ``python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml``
    keeps the validation fast while aligning the configuration with the
    quickstart dry run.  To activate an alternate profile defined in the same
    YAML, append the desired name after a colon—for example,
    ``--options configs/fullR2_run.yml:sr`` selects the signal-region preset.
    Remember that once ``--options`` is provided, command-line flags are ignored
    in favour of the YAML contents, so bake any overrides into the file before
    submitting the run.

### Systematic toggles

Systematic variations are disabled by default to keep the run lightweight.
Add ``--do-systs`` when you want to exercise the same code paths used in the
full analysis.  The helper automatically inspects
``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to determine which sum-of-weights variations are
available and enables them in the Coffea processor.  Because only a single
histogram is processed, enabling systematics keeps the runtime manageable while
still producing variations in the output pickle.

When you are ready to explore more advanced options, you can pass the same
arguments used by the main workflow (``--split-lep-flavor``, ``--skip-sr``,
``--skip-cr`` and custom ``--wc`` lists are all supported by the helper).  Any
run generated through the quickstart utilities is reproducible via the returned
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.run_analysis_helpers.RunConfig`, which records all
relevant switches.

Commit message:

docs: add sample metadata reference and troubleshooting

docs/quickstart_run2.md, after:

# Run 2 quickstart pipeline

The Run 2 quickstart helpers are designed to let new users validate their
software environment without having to digest the entire set of options exposed
by `analysis/topeft_run2/run_analysis.py`.  They configure the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.workflow.RunWorkflow` and the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.analysis_processor.AnalysisProcessor` with
conservative defaults, load a small histogram list and keep the executor limited
to the local ``futures`` backend.

The quickest way to run the helper is via the dedicated module entry point::

    python -m topeft.quickstart input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --output quickstart-output

The command performs two steps:

1. :func:`analysis.topeft_run2.quickstart.prepare_samples` resolves the JSON file
   (directories and ``.cfg`` files are also accepted), validates that the file is
   reachable and that the requested metadata scenario exists, and prints a
   summary of the number of samples and events discovered.
2. :func:`analysis.topeft_run2.quickstart.run_quickstart` launches the Coffea
   processor with a single histogram (`lj0pt` by default), ``nchunks=2`` and a
   local futures executor.  This keeps the runtime to a couple of minutes even on
   a laptop.

The output pickle is stored in the directory provided through ``--output`` with
an ``outname`` of ``quickstart`` (so you can expect something like
``quickstart-output/quickstart.pkl.gz``).

## Understanding the quickstart inputs

### Samples JSON

The quickstart helpers use the same JSON description as the full workflow.
Refer to the [sample metadata reference](sample_metadata_reference.md) for a
complete breakdown of required keys, optional systematic sums of weights, and
common validation fixes.  A minimal example targeting a public CMS Run 2 file is
shown below:

```json
{
  "xsec": 0.2151,
  "year": "2017",
  "treeName": "Events",
  "histAxisName": "ttHJet_UL17_quickstart",
  "files": [
    "/store/mc/RunIISummer20UL17NanoAODv9/TTZToLLNuNu_M-10_TuneCP5_13TeV-amcatnlo-pythia8/\n     NANOAODSIM/106X_mc2017_realistic_v9-v1/130000/0A1884EE-9F60-6F4F-B423-13F6179B611D.root"
  ],
  "nEvents": 418590,
  "nGenEvents": 418590,
  "nSumOfWeights": 418590,
  "isData": false
}
```

Saving the snippet as ``ttz_quickstart.json`` allows you to run the helper with
``python -m topeft.quickstart ttz_quickstart.json --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/``.
The prefix ensures that the remote EOS path is opened via XRootD.

## Metadata configuration

Quickstart jobs lean entirely on ``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to decide which
regions, histograms, and weight variations to run.  Before editing the file,
consult the [metadata configuration guide](run_analysis_configuration.md#metadata-configuration)
for a full breakdown of each section.  The highlights are:

* ``channels.groups`` enumerate the signal/control regions and include any
  per-region histogram include/exclude lists.
* ``variables`` provides the histogram catalogue (binning, labels, callable
  definitions) consumed by the Coffea processor.
* ``scenarios`` expose friendly names that map to channel bundles and power the
  ``--scenario`` flag used throughout the quickstarts.
* ``systematics`` lists the available weight/object variations.  The helper
  inspects this block whenever ``--do-systs`` is requested.

To test custom metadata, copy ``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to a new location,
edit the clone, and pass it to the helper via ``--metadata``.  Keeping the clone
under version control (for example ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/metadata_dev.yml``)
makes it easy to promote the same configuration to the full workflow once the
quickstart validation looks good.  The same path can be handed to
``analysis/topeft_run2/run_analysis.py`` via ``--metadata`` when you are ready to
run the full job:

```bash
python run_analysis.py ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --metadata configs/metadata_dev.yml --executor futures
```

### Metadata scenarios

The Run 2 metadata (``topeft/params/metadata.yml``) defines the channel bundles
exposed by the quickstart helpers.  Channel activation is now controlled solely
through the scenario list:

* ``TOP_22_006`` – Baseline reinterpretation categories, including the refined
  off-Z trilepton split.
* ``tau_analysis`` – Extends the baseline with the tau-enriched regions.
* ``fwd_analysis`` – Adds the forward-jet selections on top of the shared
  control suite.

Pass ``--scenario`` one or more times to request the combinations you need.  For
example, ``--scenario TOP_22_006 --scenario tau_analysis`` layers the tau
categories onto the baseline job, while adding ``--scenario fwd_analysis`` in
the same command keeps the forward selections active as well.  For a
step-by-step walkthrough of each scenario—including how to mix them in YAML—see
the [Run 2 metadata scenarios guide](run2_scenarios.md).

During :func:`prepare_samples`, the scenario names are validated via the
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.workflow.ChannelPlanner`.  Passing unknown
identifiers raises a ``ValueError`` before any processing starts so that
misconfigurations are caught early.

### Next steps {#run2-quickstart-next-steps}

!!! note "Next steps"
    Keep the workflow lightweight while layering on additional validation
    targets.  The [Run 2 metadata scenarios guide](run2_scenarios.md) walks
    through each bundle in detail.  To reuse this helper for the tau- or
    forward-focused reinterpretations, add the scenario switches directly on the
    command line:

    ```bash
    python -m topeft.quickstart \
        input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --scenario tau_analysis
    ```

    Swap ``tau_analysis`` for ``fwd_analysis`` to validate the forward
    categories, or request both in a single run when you want to confirm the
    combined configuration:

    ```bash
    python -m topeft.quickstart \
        input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
        --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
        --scenario TOP_22_006 \
        --scenario tau_analysis \
        --scenario fwd_analysis
    ```

    To keep the combined scenario close at hand for the full workflow, mirror
    the same list in a YAML override for :mod:`run_analysis.py` before scaling
    up.  Start by copying ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run.yml`` to
    ``analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml`` so all of the other
    defaults remain aligned, then update the new file's metadata pointer, sample
    list, and scenarios as shown below:

    ```yaml
    # analysis/topeft_run2/configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml
    metadata: configs/metadata_dev.yml
    # (clone topeft/params/metadata.yml to configs/metadata_dev.yml before editing)
    jsonFiles:
      - ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json
    scenarios:
      - TOP_22_006
      - tau_analysis
      - fwd_analysis
    ```

    Launching ``python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml``
    keeps the validation fast while aligning the configuration with the
    quickstart dry run.  To activate an alternate profile defined in the same
    YAML, append the desired name after a colon—for example,
    ``--options configs/fullR2_run.yml:sr`` selects the signal-region preset.
    Remember that once ``--options`` is provided, command-line flags are ignored
    in favour of the YAML contents, so bake any overrides into the file before
    submitting the run.

### Systematic toggles

Systematic variations are disabled by default to keep the run lightweight.
Add ``--do-systs`` when you want to exercise the same code paths used in the
full analysis.  The helper automatically inspects
``topeft/params/metadata.yml`` to determine which sum-of-weights variations are
available and enables them in the Coffea processor.  Because only a single
histogram is processed, enabling systematics keeps the runtime manageable while
still producing variations in the output pickle.

When you are ready to explore more advanced options, you can pass the same
arguments used by the main workflow (``--split-lep-flavor``, ``--skip-sr``,
``--skip-cr`` and custom ``--wc`` lists are all supported by the helper).  Any
run generated through the quickstart utilities is reproducible via the returned
:class:`analysis.topeft_run2.run_analysis_helpers.RunConfig`, which records all
relevant switches.
