docs/run2_scenarios.md, before:

# Run 2 metadata scenarios guide

This guide expands on the quickstart documentation by showing how to run the
Run 2 workflows with the three metadata scenarios distributed in
`topeft/params/metadata.yml`:

- `TOP_22_006`
- `tau_analysis`
- `fwd_analysis`

Each section starts from a clean checkout of the repository with the editable
``topeft`` and ``topcoffea`` packages installed (see the
[TOP-22-006 quickstart](quickstart_top22_006.md#prerequisites) for the
recommended environment setup).  The commands shown below assume that you are in
``analysis/topeft_run2`` unless otherwise noted.

## Running individual scenarios

### TOP_22_006 baseline

The TOP-22-006 scenario powers both the Run 2 quickstart helper and the default
YAML profile.  To launch the full control-region job from the preset YAML, run:

```bash
python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml
```

Switch to the signal-region profile by passing ``--options-profile sr``:

```bash
python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml --options-profile sr
```

You can reach the same configuration from the quickstart helper with:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario TOP_22_006
```

### Tau-enriched workflow

The ``tau_analysis`` bundle adds the dedicated signal and control regions needed
by the tau reinterpretation.  When using ``run_analysis.py`` with the preset
YAML, supply the scenario on the command line:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario tau_analysis
```

From the quickstart helper the equivalent command is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario tau_analysis
```

### Forward-jet workflow

The ``fwd_analysis`` bundle activates the forward-jet categories while reusing
the shared Run 2 control regions.  To run the YAML preset with forward
categories enabled:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

And the matching quickstart invocation is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

## Combining scenarios and feature tags

Metadata scenarios can be combined to produce hybrid category selections.  The
planner validates that the requested combinations are compatible before any
processing starts, so invalid bundles fail fast.

### YAML profiles

To combine scenarios in a YAML profile, set the ``scenario`` key to a list.  The
following snippet extends the default Run 2 configuration with both the tau and
forward regions while enabling the ``requires_tau`` feature tag:

```yaml
# configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml
infile: ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json
scenario:
  - TOP_22_006
  - tau_analysis
  - fwd_analysis
feature_tags:
  - requires_tau
```

YAML values merge with the base profile when the file is passed through
``--options``.  Anything provided on the CLI still takes precedence over the
combined configuration.

### Command-line overrides

You can request the same combination directly on the command line.  Each time
``--scenario`` or ``--feature`` is provided the value is appended to the active
set:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario TOP_22_006 \
    --scenario tau_analysis \
    --scenario fwd_analysis \
    --feature requires_tau
```

For quickstart tests, the equivalent call is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario TOP_22_006 \
    --scenario tau_analysis \
    --scenario fwd_analysis \
    --feature requires_tau
```

The planner will echo the resolved category and feature list before launching
the Coffea processor, making it easy to confirm the combined configuration.

Commit message:

docs: retire channel feature flag references

docs/run2_scenarios.md, after:

# Run 2 metadata scenarios guide

This guide expands on the quickstart documentation by showing how to run the
Run 2 workflows with the three metadata scenarios distributed in
`topeft/params/metadata.yml`:

- `TOP_22_006`
- `tau_analysis`
- `fwd_analysis`

Each section starts from a clean checkout of the repository with the editable
``topeft`` and ``topcoffea`` packages installed (see the
[TOP-22-006 quickstart](quickstart_top22_006.md#prerequisites) for the
recommended environment setup).  The commands shown below assume that you are in
``analysis/topeft_run2`` unless otherwise noted.

!!! note
    The ``--channel-feature`` flag has been retired.  Use the scenarios below—on
    their own or in combination—to activate the tau, forward, and off-Z
    variations.

## Running individual scenarios

### TOP_22_006 baseline

The TOP-22-006 scenario powers both the Run 2 quickstart helper and the default
YAML profile.  To launch the full control-region job from the preset YAML, run:

```bash
python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml
```

Switch to the signal-region profile by passing ``--options-profile sr``:

```bash
python run_analysis.py --options configs/fullR2_run.yml --options-profile sr
```

You can reach the same configuration from the quickstart helper with:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario TOP_22_006
```

### Tau-enriched workflow

The ``tau_analysis`` bundle adds the dedicated signal and control regions needed
by the tau reinterpretation.  When using ``run_analysis.py`` with the preset
YAML, supply the scenario on the command line:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario tau_analysis
```

From the quickstart helper the equivalent command is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario tau_analysis
```

### Forward-jet workflow

The ``fwd_analysis`` bundle activates the forward-jet categories while reusing
the shared Run 2 control regions.  To run the YAML preset with forward
categories enabled:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

And the matching quickstart invocation is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

## Combining scenarios

Metadata scenarios can be combined to produce hybrid category selections.  The
planner validates that the requested combinations are compatible before any
processing starts, so invalid bundles fail fast.  The baseline ``TOP_22_006``
scenario already ships with the refined off-Z split; layering ``tau_analysis``
or ``fwd_analysis`` on top keeps those specialised categories active alongside
the shared control regions.

### YAML profiles

To combine scenarios in a YAML profile, set the ``scenario`` key to a list.  The
following snippet extends the default Run 2 configuration with both the tau and
forward regions:

```yaml
# configs/fullR2_run_tau_fwd.yml
infile: ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json
scenario:
  - TOP_22_006
  - tau_analysis
  - fwd_analysis
```

YAML values merge with the base profile when the file is passed through
``--options``.  Anything provided on the CLI still takes precedence over the
combined configuration.

### Command-line overrides

You can request the same combination directly on the command line.  Each time
``--scenario`` is provided the value is appended to the active set:

```bash
python run_analysis.py \
    --options configs/fullR2_run.yml \
    --scenario TOP_22_006 \
    --scenario tau_analysis \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

For quickstart tests, the equivalent call is:

```bash
python -m topeft.quickstart \
    ../../input_samples/sample_jsons/test_samples/UL17_private_ttH_for_CI.json \
    --prefix root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov/ \
    --scenario TOP_22_006 \
    --scenario tau_analysis \
    --scenario fwd_analysis
```

The planner will echo the resolved scenario list before launching the Coffea
processor, making it easy to confirm the combined configuration.
